notes/TODOS.md, before:

# Actual todos

TESTING- dress to impress
1. vs, kn, fo idempotent testing
2. vscheme differential testing

Ask about setting globals to literals


# Depth

# Bignums 
1. build bignums module 
   - new, free
   - add, sub, mult, div, idiv, mod. 
   - print
   - ask about floating point


Dynamic compilation and loading [2 points]. 
μScheme and vScheme both have a use syntactic form, which tells the interpreter 
to load and run code. This goal is to implement two machine instructions, one to
 call popen and read from a pipe, and one to load a list of modules from an open
  file descriptor. These two instructions can then eventually be used to call 
  the compiler and load the results. These instructions can be tested now, and 
  then by the time of module 4, they can be used to implement a use function.



# A-Normal Form

Right now:
do reg pass first
then anormalize. Makes renaming easy. 

Make freeNames set. Calls and tailcalls- free names are funreg -> rn, so we 
can't bind to any of those

Ok! Let's get to it. 


Here's the anormal spiel:

What if we have 


Base case: 
A[[let x = SIMPLE ex in ex']] = let x = ex in ex'

float case of case 

float whiles-- chapter 2 semantics! 

             1       a     b                         a              b
A[[let x = (let y = ey in ey') in ex']] = A[[let y = ey in (let x = ey' in ex')]]

todo: y can't be free in what? answer: ex'
            1  a b  c                                a 
A[[let x = (if e e1 e2) in ex']]        = A[[let y = e in (if y       b
                                                            (let x = e1 in ex')
                                                                      c
                                                            (let x = e2 in ex'))]]

                                                            WRONG WHILE! book todo
            1          a    b                              a
A[[let x = (while y := e in e') in ex']]  = A[[(while y := e in 
                                                    b 
                                          (let x := e' in ex'))]]

            1     a    b                        a              b
A[[let x = (begin e1; e2) in ex']]  = A[[(begin e1; (let x := e2 in ex'))]]

BUT ey' is another let? We need recursive application, but i'm not quite sure 
how to normalize yet. Can we do it without a continuation?

For the depth point that checks for let-bound variables not being free in 
enclosing lets in KNF: 

the issue is that a variable that is bound in a let may not be bound in an 
enclosing let, or even on the right-hand side of an enclosing let. 
Otherwise you run into trouble not just with let but also with begin.

what is an enclosing let? can we check this invariant here, when we might 
have illegal forms?




# Random todos
Add <:> operator : curry op cons + <$>
Ask about literal after @: can we have it, bc we use regs?



# Intel

I recommend that your loader call svmdebug_value("unparse") to see if unparsing 
is requested, and if so, have get_instruction call printasm on every 
instruction that the loader reads.
I recommend that your loader call svmdebug_value("unparse") to see if unparsing 
is requested, and if so, have get_instruction call printasm on every 
instruction that the loader reads.


# Random

If you want a rant on the topic, ask me. re: parsing. Maybe?

# Old code
            // case InitConsCell: {
            //     struct VMBlock *vmb = vmalloc_raw(sizeof(*vmb));
            //     vmb->nslots = 0;

            // }
            // }



# # Quotes

"All of the words you said sounded sensible, but there were so many of them 
I can't hold them all in my head at once."

"Dinner is about to be served. I will reply later. I hope within an hour."

'The comments on struct VMState could serve as an object lesson in 
"how not to comment."'

R: "Why is it called ld, if it's not a full loader?"
NR: "I don't know... some people were discussing it being a loader in the 70s..."
R: "Yeah, makes sense. I figured if anyone would've been there it would be you"
NR: "No, I was out playing touch football"


"charmingly naive"

"There's not enough words there for it to be wrong"

"As long as we can emacs, the mechanism is immaterial."

Kresten: "we're definitely doing some wrong nonsense"
nr: "You can comfort yourself in the fact that as long as you're in dark mode
     I probably can't see what you're doing."

"(I'm never 100% reliable, but definitely much less reliable after 7pm.)"

"No, this is one horse-sized duck. No problem."

"(I guess once you've taught 40, you never forget...)"

"It's an exaggeration to say the faculty slack is the Ming Chow social feed,
 but it's not much of an exaggeration."

"The standard basis is part of the standard, dude."

Commit message:

lots: fixed scheme code stuff (vscheme parser still needs the fix), added negative support: ask! now onto actual gc.

notes/TODOS.md, after:

# Actual todos

TESTING- dress to impress
1. vs, kn, fo idempotent testing
2. vscheme differential testing

Office hours:
iparsers.c:161- negative numbers
vscheme parser for 'literals?
anf confirm : directly to anf? not that hard ig
free variables in a closure for freeIn
Ask about setting globals to literals

# Depth

# Bignums 
1. build bignums module 
   - new, free
   - add, sub, mult, div, idiv, mod. 
   - print
   - ask about floating point


Dynamic compilation and loading [2 points]. 
μScheme and vScheme both have a use syntactic form, which tells the interpreter 
to load and run code. This goal is to implement two machine instructions, one to
 call popen and read from a pipe, and one to load a list of modules from an open
  file descriptor. These two instructions can then eventually be used to call 
  the compiler and load the results. These instructions can be tested now, and 
  then by the time of module 4, they can be used to implement a use function.



# A-Normal Form


---
anproject: simple. either anf or not. can fail. error type
antranslate: KNF->ANF
but we want full a-normalization. 

Right now:
do reg pass first
then anormalize. Makes renaming easy. 

Make freeNames set. Calls and tailcalls- free names are funreg -> rn, so we 
can't bind to any of those

Ok! Let's get to it. 


Here's the anormal spiel:

What if we have 


Base case: 
A[[let x = SIMPLE ex in ex']] = let x = ex in ex'

float case of case 

float whiles-- chapter 2 semantics! 

             1       a     b                         a              b
A[[let x = (let y = ey in ey') in ex']] = A[[let y = ey in (let x = ey' in ex')]]

todo: y can't be free in what? answer: ex'
            1  a b  c                                a 
A[[let x = (if e e1 e2) in ex']]        = A[[let y = e in (if y       b
                                                            (let x = e1 in ex')
                                                                      c
                                                            (let x = e2 in ex'))]]

                                                            WRONG WHILE! book todo
            1          a    b                              a
A[[let x = (while y := e in e') in ex']]  = A[[(while y := e in 
                                                    b 
                                          (let x := e' in ex'))]]

            1     a    b                        a              b
A[[let x = (begin e1; e2) in ex']]  = A[[(begin e1; (let x := e2 in ex'))]]

BUT ey' is another let? We need recursive application, but i'm not quite sure 
how to normalize yet. Can we do it without a continuation?

For the depth point that checks for let-bound variables not being free in 
enclosing lets in KNF: 

the issue is that a variable that is bound in a let may not be bound in an 
enclosing let, or even on the right-hand side of an enclosing let. 
Otherwise you run into trouble not just with let but also with begin.

what is an enclosing let? can we check this invariant here, when we might 
have illegal forms?




# Random todos
Add <:> operator : curry op cons + <$>
Ask about literal after @: can we have it, bc we use regs?



# Intel

I recommend that your loader call svmdebug_value("unparse") to see if unparsing 
is requested, and if so, have get_instruction call printasm on every 
instruction that the loader reads.
I recommend that your loader call svmdebug_value("unparse") to see if unparsing 
is requested, and if so, have get_instruction call printasm on every 
instruction that the loader reads.


# Random

If you want a rant on the topic, ask me. re: parsing. Maybe?

# Old code
            // case InitConsCell: {
            //     struct VMBlock *vmb = vmalloc_raw(sizeof(*vmb));
            //     vmb->nslots = 0;

            // }
            // }



# # Quotes

"All of the words you said sounded sensible, but there were so many of them 
I can't hold them all in my head at once."

"Dinner is about to be served. I will reply later. I hope within an hour."

'The comments on struct VMState could serve as an object lesson in 
"how not to comment."'

R: "Why is it called ld, if it's not a full loader?"
NR: "I don't know... some people were discussing it being a loader in the 70s..."
R: "Yeah, makes sense. I figured if anyone would've been there it would be you"
NR: "No, I was out playing touch football"


"charmingly naive"

"There's not enough words there for it to be wrong"

"As long as we can emacs, the mechanism is immaterial."

Kresten: "we're definitely doing some wrong nonsense"
nr: "You can comfort yourself in the fact that as long as you're in dark mode
     I probably can't see what you're doing."

"(I'm never 100% reliable, but definitely much less reliable after 7pm.)"

"No, this is one horse-sized duck. No problem."

"(I guess once you've taught 40, you never forget...)"

"It's an exaggeration to say the faculty slack is the Ming Chow social feed,
 but it's not much of an exaggeration."

"The standard basis is part of the standard, dude."
